# Project-289
9.8 MW biomass at MAHENDRA POWER PRIVATE LIMITED
_____
Mahendra Power Pvt. Ltd. (MPPL), incorporated in 2008, belongs to Raipur-based Mahendra Group. In FY16, MPPL purchased a non-operational 9.8 MW biomass power plant located at Champa, Madwa village Dist. – Janjgir, from Indiabulls Financial Services Ltd.

The project activity is establishing a 9.8 MW biomass-based power plant at Madwa Village of ChampaJanjgir District in Chhattisgarh State, India. The project activity will utilise surplus biomass residues to generate electricity for a grid system owned by the state-owned power utility, Chhattisgarh State
Electricity Board (CSEB). The location of the project activity was selected considering all the
requirements like biomass availability, water availability, power evacuation facilities etc after due survey
has been made by the project proponent.

The Champa-Janjgir district is one of the largest paddy growing
areas in the state of Chhattisgarh. Paddy, Wheat and Maize are major biomass producing crops cultivated
in surrounding areas within 75 km radius of the project location. Many rice mills and saw mills are located
in this area supplying agro-residues namely rice husk and saw dust respectively. The project will generate
power by sustainable means without any negative impact on environment and the generated electricity
will be exported to 220/132 kV/33kV/11kV Banari substation of CSEB, which is at a distance of 4 km
from the project site. The whole process supports in climate change mitigation as it leads to emission
reduction of 556,295 tonnes of CO2eq. over the crediting period of 10 years.
Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 61810.56 MWh/ys
from the Indian grid system, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuelbased grid-connected power plants. The project activity doesn’t involve any GHG emission sources.


Since the project activity will generate electricity through biomass energy, a clean renewable energy
source, it will not cause any negative impact on the environment and thereby contributes to climate
change mitigation efforts.
____________
### Prior History
_______________
CDM Registered Activity
_____
Project 1199 : 9.8 MW Biomass Based Power Plant at Lahari Power & Steels Limited in Champa-Janjgir District, Chattisgarh
____________
CDM Registration Date	03 Sep 07  
CDM Crediting Period	03 Sep 07 - 02 Sep 17 (Fixed)
___________________
CDM CERs issued for Monitoring Period: 03 Sep 2007 - 31 Dec 2009

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 42464

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-188893957-1-1-0-1199      Block end: IN-5-188936420-1-1-0-1199





